**Mary VonRanker** – Perceptive, Motivated, Conscientious

PO Box 40089, Bellevue, WA 98015, 425-591-3779 <mary@cedarmists.com>

\-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Summary** Seeking to join a sales, technology, or operations team in which
customers, integrity, and stellar results are the most important business
drivers. In addition to management and technical skills, I bring a high EQ,
Triage, Prioritization, and Resolution capabilities to all work situations with
genuine grace, evaluation and thoughtfulness. “Joie de Vivre” and going above
and beyond are my standard working protocols.

**Representative Skills and Accomplishments**

**HR / Education Manager & Special Projects**

► Through various one-on-one and strategic communications, in just 2 years, as
reported by an outside industry expert agency, improved 140+ employee satisfaction scores
from a 3-5 to solid nine's in eleven categories.

► Developed comprehensive training documentation for HR and Training
Instrumental in implementing two successful online software migrations

► Wrote and developed testing hiring criteria which significantly reduced our
bad hires

► Responsible for maintaining all employee state mandated documentation.

► Developed and implemented a solid continuing education tracking process.

► Developed material for and conduct weekly new employee orientations in which
they are also trained on all technology, online and documentation tools

► Lead for brand new EOS (Entrepreneurial Operating System) department
exploration and implementation process.

► Point person for problem solving of all social media and technology platforms

**Customer focused**

► Developed a catalog of health articles, resources, and referral partners for
client use.

► Created documentation to assist clients with software installations.

► Consistently went beyond the “required” protocols to find workable solutions
for clients.

► Fully coordinated and transitioned weekly research forums for Advanced
   Technology Division from paper-based system to fully integrated electronic
   and digital process.

**Detail oriented**

**►**Performed an audit of invoices and corresponding bills of lading and
discovered \$1.8mm in uncollected receivables.

**►**Managed a multi-million dollar research and technology equipment inventory
system to minimize loss due to theft and lab migration.

**►** Created and managed processes to prepare museum quality art, artifacts,
and antiques for shipment, valued at \$10,000 to \$1mm or more.

**Results driven**

► As Health and Safety Coordinator, successfully built and implemented an
evacuation team that performed its duties without casualty or injury in multiple
emergency scenarios.

► As a Massage Therapist, frequently refer patients to other healthcare
providers for curative care as an alternative to continued massage therapy for
pain management.

**►** As an assistant to a CPA, worked within tight deadlines to ensure that tax
and other critical documents were delivered accurately and on time.

**Additional Capabilities and Experience**

**Computing & Technical Support**

-   **Technical Support:** Provided technical support for all PC’s, hardware &
    software, network connectivity, server(s), printers, projection systems and
    equipment relocations for an Advanced Research group. Proficient to advanced
    in standard software products as well as social media platforms, Dreamweaver
    (and associated support tools) and QuickBooks.

-   **Data and Word Processing:** Operated and maintained computer system, ran
    nightly reports as well as accurately processed various data entry functions
    for payroll, pick docs, and inventory in a busy warehouse environment. Have
    provided high quality word processing and publishing large technical manuals
    in various settings.

**Customer Service**

-   **Health and Safety:** By management invitation, reactivated the Health &
    Safety Coordinator role for the 400 person building. From the ground up,
    researched and obtained various in-house trainings, networked and attended
    company-wide team meetings, and coordinated, instructed, organized and
    coalesced an active engaged team of emergency responders.

-   **Event Management:** Through careful planning, documentation, tracking and
    follow-up, successfully implemented numerous, small and large, formal and
    informal business and social events.

-   **Listening Skills:** With highly conscientious, observational and careful
    listening skills, followed by thoughtful and clarifying questions, work is
    completed right the first time. In addition, high EQ skills allows the
    customer to feel heard and supported, thus providing a positive working
    experience.

**Administrative Support**

-   **Administrative Assistant:** Full-spectrum Administrative support for Vice
    Presidents, Computer Scientists and Managers whose industries included
    aerospace, technical support, international marketing, purchasing, shipping,
    and insurance.

-   **Graphics & Technical Communication:** Created, designed and maintained
    graphics and text used for web content and newsletters supporting various
    professional or non-profit organizations. Wrote technical and non-technical
    content with strong editing and proofreading skills.

-   **Office Management:** Managed all office requirements for a family-owned
    fine art conservation business.

-   **Bookkeeping:** Posted payables, receivables and reconciled bank
    statements, using both computerized and manual methods; emphasis on
    thoroughness and accuracy.

-   **Seminar Management:** Coordinated, scheduled, and technically supported
    Advanced Mathematics and Technology Division’s weekly technical
    presentations.

**Employment History**

HR and Education Manager, Visiting Angels of Kirkland 5/2012 to present

Licensed Massage Therapist & Reflexologist, Sole Proprietor 1999 to present

   Massage Therapist & Colon Hydrotherapist, Holistique Medical Center 11/03 –
   11/04

   End User Computing Support, The Boeing Company 12/98 – 11/03

Administrative Specialist, The Boeing Company 9/97 – 12/98

Head Teacher, Afternoon Daycare, Children’s Institute for Learning Disabilities
6/96 – 9/97

Continuing Education
--------------------

   Raw Cuisine Chef Certification, Living Light International Culinary Arts
   School

   Phi Beta Kappa, Bellevue College, 2012 - present

   Pursuit of Excellence Series, Context International

   Hawaiian bodywork , 200+ hours

   Northwest School of Healing (NWSH), Graduate 4-yr. program plus 3 year
   Assistant teacher volunteer

   Bellevue College: Technical Communications and Writing, VB 6.0 Programming,
   Spanish, liberal arts & science courses

   Instructor: Pain & Stress Reduction Workshop and Ear Reflexology

   Seattle Massage School, Graduate 1-yr.

   American Academy of Reflexology, Certification

   Executive Assistant Certification, Sawyers Business College

**Other**

Newcastle Chamber Board Secretary, 2012-2015, now active member at large

National Wildlife Federation and Earth Day Volunteer, city of Newcastle

Master Recycler and Composter, Eastside, Seattle Tilth

Past President, V.P, Secretary, Newsletter Editor & Founding Member of WA
Reflexology Association

Assistant Teacher, 3 years at NWSH

Health & Safety Coordinator, 5 years at Boeing

Personal Hobbies and Interests: Raw & whole food cuisine, organic gardening,
sustainability, hiking, public service activities, creating multi-media art
forms
